



IP Lab Questions:

1. Select the first ICMP Echo Request message sent by your computer, and expand
the Internet Protocol part of the packet in the packet details window. 
What is the IP address of your computer?
Ans: my IP is 192.168.0.18
2. Within the IP packet header, what is the value in the upper layer protocol field?
Ans: Protocol: UDP (17)
3. How many bytes are in the IP header? How many bytes are in the payload of the
IP datagram? Explain how you determined the number of payload bytes.
Ans:20 bytes for header, payload is 56 - 20 = 36 bytes
4. Has this IP datagram been fragmented? Explain how you determined whether or
not the datagram has been fragmented.
Ans: there is no fragmented, because fragment offset is 0
5. Which fields in the IP datagram always change from one datagram to the next
within this series of ICMP messages sent by your computer?
ANS: identification increase from 34577 by one each time.
6. Which fields stay constant? Which of the fields must stay constant? Which fields
must change? Why?
Ans: 
7. Describe the pattern you see in the values in the Identification field of the IP
datagram
8. What is the value in the Identification field and the TTL field?
1999, ttl = 64
9. Do these values remain unchanged for all of the ICMP TTL-exceeded replies sent
to your computer by the nearest (first hop) router? Why?




DNS Lab questions:
1. Run nslookup to obtain the IP address of a Web server in Asia. What is the IP
address of that server?

nslookup www.sina.com.cn
Name:	ww1.sinaimg.cn.gccdn.net
Address: 174.35.98.35
Name:	ww1.sinaimg.cn.gccdn.net
Address: 174.35.97.163


2. Run nslookup to determine the authoritative DNS servers for a university in
Europe?

nslookup -type=NS www.ox.ac.uk

ns2.ja.net	internet address = 193.63.105.17
ns2.ja.net	has AAAA address 2001:630:0:45::11
dns2.ox.ac.uk	internet address = 163.1.2.190
dns0.ox.ac.uk	internet address = 129.67.1.190

3. Run nslookup so that one of the DNS servers obtained in Question 2 is queried for
the mail servers for Yahoo! mail. What is its IP address?

nslookup mail.yahoo.com usw2.akam.net

mail server for yahoo refuse to response


Kaijuns-MacBook-Pro:~ kaijunhe$ sudo killall -INFO mDNSResponder
Password:
Kaijuns-MacBook-Pro:~ kaijunhe$ grep mDNSResponder /var/log/system.log
Jan 27 12:04:36 Kaijuns-MacBook-Pro sudo[96483]: kaijunhe : TTY=ttys000 ; PWD=/Users/kaijunhe ; USER=root ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/killall -INFO mDNSResponder
Kaijuns-MacBook-Pro:~ kaijunhe$ sudo killall -HUP mDNSResponder

4. Locate the DNS query and response messages. Are then sent over UDP or TCP? 




11. What is the destination port for the DNS query message? What is the source port
of DNS response message?
User Datagram Protocol, Src Port: 53, Dst Port: 57898

12. To what IP address is the DNS query message sent? Is this the IP address of your
default local DNS server?

13. Examine the DNS query message. What “Type” of DNS query is it? Does the
query message contain any “answers”?
14. Examine the DNS response message. How many “answers” are provided? What
do each of these answers contain?
15. Provide a screenshot.




Http Lab

1. Is your browser running HTTP version 1.0 or 1.1? What version of HTTP is the
server running?
 Http version 1.1 1,1
2. What languages (if any) does your browser indicate that it can accept to the
server?
 Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.9,zh-CN;q=0.8,zh;q=0.7,zh-TW;q=0.6\r\n
3. What is the IP address of your computer? Of the gaia.cs.umass.edu server?
Source: 192.168.0.18, Destination: 128.119.245.12
4. What is the status code returned from the server to your browser?
HTTP/1.1 200 OK (text/html)
5. When was the HTML file that you are retrieving last modified at the server?
Last-Modified: Sat, 27 Jan 2018 06:59:01 GMT\r\n
6. How many bytes of content are being returned to your browser?
Content-Length: 128\r\n
7. By inspecting the raw data in the packet content window, do you see any headers
within the data that are not displayed in the packet-listing window? If so, name
one.
all are displayed.



12. How many HTTP GET request messages did your browser send? Which packet
number in the trace contains the GET message for the Bill or Rights?
13. Which packet number in the trace contains the status code and phrase associated
with the response to the HTTP GET request?
14. What is the status code and phrase in the response?
15. How many data-containing TCP segments were needed to carry the single HTTP
response and the text of the Bill of Rights?
[4 Reassembled TCP Segments (4861 bytes): #7(1448), #8(1448), #10(1448), #11(517)]

16. How many HTTP GET request messages did your browser send? To which
Internet addresses were these GET requests sent?
4 messsage send
17. Can you tell whether your browser downloaded the two images serially, or
whether they were downloaded from the two web sites in parallel? Explain
it's from two website seperately.

18. What is the server’s response (status code and phrase) in response to the initial
HTTP GET message from your browser?
401 unauthorized
19. When your browser’s sends the HTTP GET message for the second time, what
new field is included in the HTTP GET message?
Authorization: Basic d2lyZXNoYXJrLXN0dWRlbnRzOm5ldHdvcms=\r\n




TCP LAB
1. What is the IP address and TCP port number used by the client computer (source)
that is transferring the file to gaia.cs.umass.edu? To answer this question, it’s
probably easiest to select an HTTP message and explore the details of the TCP
packet used to carry this HTTP message, using the “details of the selected packet
header window” (refer to Figure 2 in the “Getting Started with Wireshark” Lab if
you’re uncertain about the Wireshark windows.

ip address is 192.168.1.102, port number is 1161
2. What is the IP address of gaia.cs.umass.edu? On what port number is it sending
and receiving TCP segments for this connection?

128.119.245.12, port number is 80
3. What is the IP address and TCP port number used by your client computer
(source) to transfer the file to gaia.cs.umass.edu? 
ip 192.168.0.18      port number:63958

4. What is the sequence number of the TCP SYN segment that is used to initiate the
TCP connection between the client computer and gaia.cs.umass.edu? What is it
in the segment that identifies the segment as a SYN segment?
syn number is 0, and in flag part the flag is set to 1 before SYN, so it indicate it's SYN segment
5. What is the sequence number of the SYNACK segment sent by gaia.cs.umass.edu
to the client computer in reply to the SYN? What is the value of the
Acknowledgement field in the SYNACK segment? How did gaia.cs.umass.edu
determine that value? What is it in the segment that identifies the segment as a
SYNACK segment?
set to 1, in flag it's acknowledgement set to 1
6. What is the sequence number of the TCP segment containing the HTTP POST
command? Note that in order to find the POST command, you’ll need to dig into
the packet content field at the bottom of the Wireshark window, looking for a
segment with a “POST” within its DATA field.
it's 1 , in this sample case, we find out post in #4 TCP
7. Consider the TCP segment containing the HTTP POST as the first segment in the
TCP connection. What are the sequence numbers of the first six segments in the 
TCP connection (including the segment containing the HTTP POST)? At what
time was each segment sent? When was the ACK for each segment received?
Given the difference between when each TCP segment was sent, and when its
acknowledgement was received, what is the RTT value for each of the six
segments? What is the EstimatedRTT value (see Section 3.5.3, page 239 in
text) after the receipt of each ACK? Assume that the value of the
EstimatedRTT is equal to the measured RTT for the first segment, and then is
computed using the EstimatedRTT equation on page 239 for all subsequent
segments.
Note: Wireshark has a nice feature that allows you to plot the RTT for
each of the TCP segments sent. Select a TCP segment in the “listing of
captured packets” window that is being sent from the client to the
gaia.cs.umass.edu server. Then select: Statistics->TCP Stream Graph>Round
Trip Time Graph.

8. What is the length of each of the first six TCP segments?
1460
9. What is the minimum amount of available buffer space advertised at the received
for the entire trace? Does the lack of receiver buffer space ever throttle the
sender?
8760
10. Are there any retransmitted segments in the trace file? What did you check for (in
the trace) in order to answer this question?
no, it's just draw a plot to show that, no retransmitted segment in thr trace file

11. How much data does the receiver typically acknowledge in an ACK? Can you
identify cases where the receiver is ACKing every other received segment (see
Table 3.2 on page 247 in the text).

12. What is the throughput (bytes transferred per unit time) for the TCP connection?
Explain how you calculated this value.




SSL LAB:

For each of the first 8 Ethernet frames, specify the source of the frame (client or
server), determine the number of SSL records that are included in the frame, and
list the SSL record types that are included in the frame. Draw a timing diagram
between client and server, with one arrow for each SSL record.


2. Each of the SSL records begins with the same three fields (with possibly different
values). One of these fields is “content type” and has length of one byte. List all
three fields and their lengths. 
Ans: context type(1), length(2), version(2)

3. Expand the ClientHello record. (If your trace contains multiple ClientHello
records, expand the frame that contains the first one.) What is the value of the
content type?
handshake(22)
4. Does the ClientHello record contain a nonce (also known as a “challenge”)? If so,
what is the value of the challenge in hexadecimal notation?
yes, 	in my condition is cipher suites. length is 28 
5. Does the ClientHello record advertise the cyber suites it supports? If so, in the
first listed suite, what are the public-key algorithm, the symmetric-key algorithm,
and the hash algorithm?
ServerHello Record:
6. Locate the ServerHello SSL record. Does this record specify a chosen cipher
suite? What are the algorithms in the chosen cipher suite?
7. Does this record include a nonce? If so, how long is it? What is the purpose of the
client and server nonces in SSL?
under random section, it's 32 bytes
8. Does this record include a session ID? What is the purpose of the session ID?
yes, the purpose is to record the uique secction to make this session uique. it can be resume later
9. Does this record contain a certificate, or is the certificate included in a separate
record. Does the certificate fit into a single Ethernet frame?
no it doesn't 
10. Locate the client key exchange record. Does this record contain a pre-master
secret? What is this secret used for? Is the secret encrypted? If so, how? How long
is the encrypted secret?
ANS: 
Change Cipher Spec Record (sent by client) and Encrypted Handshake Record:
11. What is the purpose of the Change Cipher Spec record? How many bytes is the
record in your trace?
12. In the encrypted handshake record, what is being encrypted? How?
13. Does the server also send a change cipher record and an encrypted handshake
record to the client? How are those records different from those sent by the client?
Application Data
14. How is the application data being encrypted? Do the records containing
application data include a MAC? Does Wireshark distinguish between the
encrypted application data and the MAC?
15. Comment on and explain anything else that you found interesting in the trace
